We developed a trash reporting system called GoTrash. This app would assist in keeping the environment clean especially in polluted areas. Each person generates on average 1 kilogram of waste per day; that's enough waste to fill 285,000 trucks. If we were to put them in a row, the line would go from New York to London. Part of it gets recycled but a huge amount of trash ends up in illegal dumps. These dumps are everywhere - in our cities, nature, rivers, and oceans. The first step in cleaning up the world is knowing where all the “dirty spots” are that is where our app helps. People can report on the map where there is a trash dump, once it is cleaned, they mark it up in the app as “clean”. Organizations, schools, and various other facilities can utilize our app to help the community and volunteer as community service. Environmental organizations, municipalities, or active citizens in the area will be notified. You too can choose to receive these notifications

Figma was used in the creation of this app. It is a cloud-based design and prototyping tool for digital projects. It’s made so that users can collaborate on projects and work pretty much anywhere. We employed the use of Figma to create real-life prototypes of what our apps would look like and basically envision how we want our ideas to be presented before getting into writing codes and developing them. We also employed the use of Mapsicle plugin when making use of Figma to create the map page prototype.

Swift is a general-purpose programming language built using a modern approach to safety, performance, and software design patterns. We will be using swift for our project because it creates the best available language for uses ranging from systems programming to mobile and desktop apps, scaling up to cloud services. Most importantly, it is designed to make writing and maintaining correct programs easier for the developer.
